#summary A collection of things to be changed and things one would like to see

= Introduction =

Lusca is based on old code from the former and still existing Squid Cache Project and so has parts which eventually should be changed or new feature should be added. We intend to collect user's suggestions and classify them here. Eventually one or another makes it into the production version.

= Overview =

Initially we treat the following sections, which are:

  * Debug message text should be easy understandable
  * Better debug level classification for less unecessary log spammimg
  * Config parser should generate better debug
  * -k reconfigure needs revision
  * Cache Peer Selection with better weight options

= How to do it =

Post your ideas and suggestions as blog item and wait for response. Better you explain more response and higher the chances getting it listed and done.

= Further Suggestions =

Just do it

= Suggestions =

  == Debug Levels ==

  The standard cache_log as defined in squid.conf or syslog if started with -s is actually spammed by lot's of irrelevant text when debug_options ALL,1 is set. The debug_options N,1 should show only important messages which could lead to problems or are real problems. Oherwise, this important messages might get lost (unseen) between the less important and expensive messages.

  So far I suggest to raise the debug level of the following keywords from N,1 to N,2 or N,3

    * clientTryParseRequest
    * httpAccept
    * httpReadReply
    * httpAppendBody
    * helperHandleRead
  
  Who then likes to see them again only needs to raise the debug level from 

    * debug_options ALL,1
to
    * debug_options ALL,2

  You might find inverted situations, where certain messages should appear as level 1 and are 2 or 3 or higher. Please post them as well.


== Debug Message Text ==

Certain debug messages show up with wierd text, hard to understand or eventually wrong. As example one here:

    * Actually    debug(1, 1) ("Squid Cache (Version %s): Exiting normally.\n",

  but squid is already shutdown when this messages appears. Irrelevant, yes, but even so wrong, better would be:

    * New msg     debug(1, 1) ("WebCache (Version %s): Exited normally.\n",

  As you see, also the word Squid Cache is changed, into Web Cache or could be Lusca Web Cache.



= Feature Wishes =

[List]