#summary Little projects which shouldn't be difficult for an interested person to complete!

= Mini Projects =

These are little projects which need doing that should be doable for a newcomer to the project.

== Error Pages ==

Better error pages are needed.

My current playpen: [http://code.google.com/p/cacheboy/source/browse/playpen/errors/]

The basic outline:

  * Figure out a "good" CSS layout for the error documents
  * Build one or two example CSS files to demonstrate the flexibility of the error page layout
  * Begin converting the error pages into the "new world order"

Notes!

  * Squid/Cacheboy -can- serve static content (as icons!) but its a terrible hack. The initial error pages will need the CSS included in-line rather than referencing an external CSS document. This should be done anyway as serving error pages can happen during "errors" and it'd be unfortunate if something required on a error page generated an error..

== Remove the stdio calls ==

I'd start by looking at the calls to inet_ntoa(), and thinking about how to remove them except where the IP addresses are being *displayed*. The inet_ntoa0 strings appear in a number of hash table key building places ; the hash code doesn't take a length parameter and expects a NUL terminated value.

So I'd do this:

  * Fix the hash table code to pass a ptr/key, not just ptr
  * and make sure it works with non-NUL terminated data -and- data with NULs inline
  * (Which will require significant codebase modifications (but not intrusive changes) all over the place!)
  * Then, when this is done, change a few places which use inet_ntoa() to generate a key - starting with clientdb and persistent connections
  * Rebenchmark!